The next part that we're gonna get into is
where things really start to get exciting,
because we're going to stand
up a custom database, and
then we're gonna use
that to manage our site.
So instead of having this hard coded .JSON
file, we're gonna use a database, and
then we're gonna interact
with our database.
So, for this, we're going to use Hasura,
Hasura is a really powerful kind
of database management tool.
They have a free cloud offering, which
is one of the reasons that I like it.
It's very quick to get started
with which I think is important.
In order to use this, you are gonna
need to have a Hasura Cloud account.
So if you go to hasura.io,
you'll be able to try Hasura Cloud here.
Hasura Cloud is easiest to
use if you have Heroku.
And signing up for both of these is
very fast if you haven't done it before.
So what we are going to do is I'm
going to make sure that I'm logged
into my Hasura Cloud account or
my Heroku Cloud account or
whatever I'm trying to say,
Heroku account.
So I'm logging in, okay.
Now that I'm logged in, I'm done.
I don't need to do
anything else with Heroku.
I just need to have an account and
be logged in.
Everything else will
get managed by Hasura.
Next I'm gonna go to Hasura Cloud.
And I'm gonna click this try button.
And they've got everything
that I need here.
I think I have my account through Google.
So let's find out.
Yes, all right.
And they are going to walk you
through creating a new project.
Now I'm gonna use this
try with Heroku button.
I'm gonna give everyone a second to
do that because I assume that folks
had to create both Heroku and
Hasura accounts just now.
So go ahead and get caught up to
this point, the Heroku account,
you can sign up pretty quickly I hope and
the Hasura account is nice and quick.
You can use your GitHub account or your
Google account to get running really fast.
And just a reminder,
all of this stuff is free,
you won't have to enter credit cards.
It's just a thing we can try and
it's gonna be a lot of fun.
I'm gonna click this big O button,
it's gonna log me in.
It's creating our app, we're happy.
It automatically created all that for us.
Done, good.
We've got a Postgres database,
that's all we need.
So I'm gonna create a project.
All right, so now we have a couple things
going on here, we have a new GraphQL API.
We've got a name of it, all these things.
So this is the stuff that we're gonna use.
I'm gonna start by
copying this GraphQL API.
All right, and
then I need to create a new,
this one is gonna be called let's see.
HASURA_API_URL is what I called it.
And the other one that we're gonna
grab out is the HASURA_ADMIN_SECRET.
So once we've got those,
we'll go back into our dot n file.
And I'm gonna get HASURA,
HASURA_API_URL and
I copied this one, the API URL.
So I'm gonna paste that in and then I have
the HASURA_ADMIN_SECRET is
what I called that I believe.
HASURA_ADMIN_SECRET and I'm going to
copy that from the Admin Secret field.
Okay, so I've got both of those saved,
set up, we're good to go,
we're ready to actually start
working with some data.
So what we did before this point
is we set up a Heroku account,
and a Hasura account and
then I created a new project here.
So we've got our GraphQL API URL,
and we've got this admin secret.
And the admin secret is what gives
us permission to open this console.
So we've got these set, and
we saved those in our project
as HASURA_API_URL and
HASURA_ ADMIN_ SECRET.
Now that we've got these,
we're gonna launch the console, and
we're gonna start working
on building our data.
So what we need to do is in the console,
we're gonna head over to the data tab.
And in here,
we're gonna create a new table.
And so the table that we need to
create is going to be called movies.
And we're just gonna mimic
the shape of that JSON file.
So I'm going to actually just
pull it up so I can look at it.
And we're gonna look at movies.JSON.
And each one has an ID, a title,
a tagline and a poster.
So let's create those over here,
I've got an ID.
And for all of these,
we're just going to use the text type.
Had a title, that's gonna be text as well,
a tagline And a poster.
Okay, so once we've created these,
the table name is movies.
The columns just line up with what
our JSON object has, ID, title,
tagline, poster, and
then our primary key is gonna be the ID.
So we need that one to be unique,
that's fine.
We're using the IMDB IDs so
those will always be unique.
And we don't need to do anything else so
we can just add this table.
So once we've created it,
here we go, we've got our ID,
our title, our tagline and our poster.
Let's just add one of these,
so I'm gonna insert a row.
I'm gonna use this insert row tab, and
I'm gonna head over to movies.JSON, and
let's just grab the first one.
So we'll give it an ID,
we'll grab the title,
I'm gonna grab this tagline and
I'm gonna grab the poster.
Okay, so once I've saved this
then I can browse my rows and
we can see that now I've created an entry.
And so what this means is that now we
have a database that we can pull from.
And this is gonna be a little more of,
I would say probably a real world
use case of serverless functions.
A JSON file is actually really,
really good.
If you are doing something where your
company has a small number of infrequently
changing bits of data,
highlighted articles or a pricing table or
something like that,
that it's not going to change often, but
it's going to get used in a few
places throughout the site.
You wanna keep that data in sync,
using this JSON approach
is really good for that.
Because then we could just update like,
yeah, here are our pricing plans.
And then if we show it on
the pricing page, on the homepage,
on the accounting page,
all those places pull from the same data.
And we have an easy way for
if marketing needs to make a change,
they can just come in and
throw that, update that headline,
or update the plan name or
whatever they need to do.
And it updates across the site because
the serverless function is used.
When we start getting into something that
would change a little more frequently,
like we're effectively using this
the way that you would use a content
management system.
So we're gonna have movies and
those movies could get added frequently
in a complete scenario where we were
actually listing all of the movies.
These would get updated,
at least a few a week would be coming out.
So we need a little more of a robust way.
You don't wanna have to update a JSON
file every time a movie comes out,
it would get really big that gets hard
to manage, it starts to get slow.
So using a database is gonna help us
overcome a lot of those challenges.
And we can just build a UI or
we can use something like this where
someone can come in and just add new data.
So to actually get it, this data,
we are going to be using GraphQL,
which is a really nice thing,
we can just explore it in here.
And this kinda comes built-in to Hasura.
So we've got this GraphQL Explorer
on the Graphical tab.
And what Graphical is is it's kind
of a UI that automatically pulls
in a bunch of information that
we need to work with GraphQL.
And we can see that we've got a lot of
stuff going on over on the left hand side,
we've got this explorer pane.
Up at the top, we've got some buttons for
we can purify, we can get some history,
there's a couple things that maybe
we don't need to worry about.
And then we've got this Doc's link.
And if I click this Doc's link,
it looks like I can do some things.
So a query that's gonna be
like we wanna do a lookup.
So I wanna look up all my movies.
So I click in here, here's my movie.
So I'm gonna click on this and
then that's gonna give me back,
we're gonna fetch data
from the table movies.
All right, and
then I can get these sorts of arguments.
I can limit them,
I can do a query to get a subset and
it's gonna return back an array of movies.
And each of those is gonna have
the ID poster tagline and title.
So this is fairly explorable,
that's really nice.
But where it really gets interesting is
over here, I can just click movies and
I can click ID, poster, tagline and title.
And then I can hit this play button and
there's our data.
So this is pretty sleek, like one of
the things that I love about GraphQL
is that it's a kind of an inherently
explorable way of interfacing with data.
As opposed to something like REST,
where REST gives you URLs and
you have to hit each URL to
see what data comes back.
And then you kind of have to draw these
mental maps between, all right, so
I got to hit the movies endpoint.
And then once I hit the movies endpoint,
I'm gonna get this data back.
And like if we had comments or
ratings or something,
those might be under a different
endpoint where I'd have to call that and
then stitch that data together.
It ends up being a lot and
it's kind of hard to track
whereas with something like this,
we literally just have a drop down and we
click buttons and that builds our query.
This is a a fully functional
query that we can use.